Karthik Srinivasan: Okay, we got a lot on board.
Karthik Srinivasan: Okay, that's not the end of it.
Karthik Srinivasan: Maybe it's, click on that.
Karthik Srinivasan: You guys have some mid-term or something? Yeah, there's that, and basketball games. Basketball games.
Karthik Srinivasan: Or if we don't want this assignment to whom? So,
Karthik Srinivasan: We need to have lower most of the problems to work on.
Karthik Srinivasan: I'll see you.
Karthik Srinivasan: 15 would be helpful.
Karthik Srinivasan: Again, if you are missing any, you know.
Karthik Srinivasan: This is something that is essentially for the rest of the course. Everything will require some kind of API for you to access.
Karthik Srinivasan: You can still use the Google Studio APLA, which should be free, you know, you don't have to pay anything, but at the opening, you need to have your credit card and add it on. Usually, I just add bank dollars, and you can buy your $10.
Karthik Srinivasan: The $10 will last you for a few months, if you're not doing much immediately.
Karthik Srinivasan: Which, I'm being honest.
Karthik Srinivasan: This is something, which you may have to try on the local
Karthik Srinivasan: And then they'll show you, right? This is something, again, you can search out there. If you're not able to use your SFS, it's okay. Like, you can still use your, yeah. Question, are there any, like, tips? Because mine took a very long time, like, 10 plus minutes.
Karthik Srinivasan: So, I used, like, very small models, like, under 7B, but it still took a long time.
Karthik Srinivasan: You move it off your file system onto the local computer, then it runs lightning fast.
Karthik Srinivasan: Yeah, you can't run it off the KU server instance, so… yeah, they just don't have the bandwidth.
Karthik Srinivasan: It's trying to load from it, so it's trying to download 3-4 digit model. It's gonna take… Yeah. So the… copying the model is like, pasting it from Google Drive, right? You're downloading it from Google Drive. So it is just a one-time thing, so it does take time.
Karthik Srinivasan: But it is irrespective of your computing resource, right? It's more about the internet that is there, you know, so it's not about… so bigger models will take more time to copy-paste.
Karthik Srinivasan: to your local, but it is a one-time thing. Once you load it.
Karthik Srinivasan: It's there in your computer. You don't have to compute every single time.
Karthik Srinivasan: I mean, during that instance.
Karthik Srinivasan: But otherwise, yeah, feel free to download modules in your own computer.
Karthik Srinivasan: It will easily blow up, that's the problem, right? You're trying out 3-4 models.
Karthik Srinivasan: But adding LM Studio or any other local LM producing the power of experimenting with AI, right? I think that's very powerful. That's something all of us should be doing after this course, you know, have some kind of control over AI that can be done.
Karthik Srinivasan: It's not like, you cannot survive in this cloud model, you can't do it, that you can just keep having a cloud model, but it's pretty easy to…
Karthik Srinivasan: So the local knowledge will give you, you know, experimentation.
Karthik Srinivasan: validity, right? You can start with your own,
Karthik Srinivasan: computers with, like, 8GB or 16GB RAM.
Karthik Srinivasan: But, eventually, you will have access to your corporate server and all that, right? And there, you'll have some local mods in your server.
Karthik Srinivasan: So, I myself use, my laptop, work laptop, my own laptop for admin work. I use, I have a server.
Karthik Srinivasan: Which I use with the GPU.
Karthik Srinivasan: for, Linux server, or for, LM Studio. LM Studio, or, there are a few other options. Like LM Studio, there's also something called OLAMA Strokes.
Karthik Srinivasan: Olama is another popular… Alternative?
Karthik Srinivasan: Okay, so you have Pullman…
Karthik Srinivasan: Linux, MacBooks, or Windows. You can also try this. This is very similar to LM Studio, but LM Studio has a nice interface and stuff. I'm not sure if Olama has an interface or so. Let me try that already, and let me see how it looks. So, this itself is a new…
Karthik Srinivasan: So I'm kind of overloaded, because Steve may come after me, the IT guy may come after me, saying, like, you know, you're noting everything in the,
Karthik Srinivasan: Obviously, the computer.
Karthik Srinivasan: Wow. So try downloading it.
Karthik Srinivasan: And, so this is neat software. You have a cloud version here as well. So if you want a cloud GoLarma, then there's a pricing involved.
Karthik Srinivasan: So, the pre-version is Olama Desktop, very similar to what we did with LM Studio. It allows you to, use any
Karthik Srinivasan: You know, models, but you need to download those models, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: The cloud version, you can run multiple cloud models at a time, right? So, these are things which my colleagues use. And then there's another thing called Lama Seek English.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right, so Lama CPP needs to be downloaded as a Python package.
Karthik Srinivasan: It's… it is very fast, because it is written in C and C++, right? So you can…
Karthik Srinivasan: You can download models, you can access the models that you already have in LM Studio.
Karthik Srinivasan: you just show the directory to that LamaCPP, and then you can run very nice models. You know, you can do some very nice inference using the Lama CPP, calling, function call, right? So, this is something my, again, other colleagues are recommending using it.
Karthik Srinivasan: Song Chi, who gave a presentation, she used Llama CPB in her, you know, LLMs, local LLMs, right? She did local LLMs, she also did, I spoke about this thing called, together, this website called Hudogether.pa.
Karthik Srinivasan: He also uses this, website.
Karthik Srinivasan: This is another cloud website, right? The thing about cloud website is you need to subscribe to it.
Karthik Srinivasan: So, Together.ai, I think they have changed their interface.
Karthik Srinivasan: We have, lot of models.
Karthik Srinivasan: Yeah, this is completely different.
Karthik Srinivasan: Changed.
Karthik Srinivasan: Let's go to the model library.
Karthik Srinivasan: So they have all kinds of models.
Karthik Srinivasan: You can… and you can access them, like, how you actually spoke in the API.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? You need to pay for every million tokens. In her experiment, she spent around $10-20 for a thousand algorithms, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: It can be… you can easily scale up. You may end up…
Karthik Srinivasan: So be careful about the, solid bushings.
Karthik Srinivasan: Coming back to the assignment,
Karthik Srinivasan: Yeah, try… try the LM Studio.
Karthik Srinivasan: And as William was saying, if you don't want to use SFS,
Karthik Srinivasan: Can you download the model into your,
Karthik Srinivasan: That's all. It could be a 1 billion diameter motor.
Karthik Srinivasan: As they said, as it takes, right? Smaller models may not be very smart. Some of the models were smart, right? Last time, I think we tried it out.
Karthik Srinivasan: The 1.5 billion parameters was pretty good.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right?
Karthik Srinivasan: I think the rest are all, from prompt engineering and stuff.
Karthik Srinivasan: Basically, let's try this thing today, right? Let's use a local LLM model accessed using LM Studio.
Karthik Srinivasan: Alright, let's try it.
Karthik Srinivasan: For this particular, example that I have shared.
Karthik Srinivasan: So, this was something I wanted to share with you for several reasons.
Karthik Srinivasan: So this is, a snapshot of, IDS research. So, information system research, which is a dataset IS curated.
Karthik Srinivasan: By scraping, several journals, in IAS information systems.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? So, if I open this file, it's just a very small file.
Karthik Srinivasan: It has just the abstracts and titles.
Karthik Srinivasan: of, recent papers, not so recent, because they are 2024 and 2025. I've not saved for over 6 yet.
Karthik Srinivasan: And they are from, 3 top journals in my field, which are the Information Systems Research Journal.
Karthik Srinivasan: The MIS quarterly.
Karthik Srinivasan: Journal of Management Informations, right? So these three are, like, if I get one or two publications in the lives, you know, I make my tenure. I get promoted to an associate process. So these are very important, journals, and very difficult to get, published.
Karthik Srinivasan: Alright, so the URLs are here, so you can look at any of these papers.
Karthik Srinivasan: But you want to lose… You have to pay for it if you are not subscribed.
Karthik Srinivasan: If it is open access, you do have access to it. If not, it has to be paid by the university through a subscription or something, right? You can… so this one is an open access, right? So you could be able to access the entire paper.
Karthik Srinivasan: Alright, so this was a paper by these two authors.
Karthik Srinivasan: He is so stuck in us cheating that.
Karthik Srinivasan: And this was the abstract. So the abstract is typically free. You can see the abstract.
Karthik Srinivasan: This is written here.
Karthik Srinivasan: So the tasks I had in mind, right, for the search I'm currently doing, is to
Karthik Srinivasan: You know, look at this research.
Karthik Srinivasan: and see how trustworthy, they are in terms of how they're available, right? When readers read them.
Karthik Srinivasan: Do you trust, and do the readers trust that as well, right? So the trustworthiness, we call it as FSTML trustworthiness. FSW means knowledge, so how do we trust that knowledge? So those…
Karthik Srinivasan: It's based on three constructs from a prior theory paper, where they say that, you know, epistemic trustworthiness on…
Karthik Srinivasan: particular text is based on certain factors, right? So we look at the text, Then we give a score?
Karthik Srinivasan: to the text, right? So this text, the first text was exactly the same as
Karthik Srinivasan: this abstract. So this abstract was created from this particular URL, and it was copy-pasted into this CLC. Similarly, I did that for
Karthik Srinivasan: Let's see. And, 227, papers, right? So, just a snapshot. My data set is much bigger.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? So, the… let's see. So, my task here, so I have written, Python code, Who…
Karthik Srinivasan: scrape this, right? To look at every abstract, and then give a score of epistemic trustworthiness. So, epistemic trustworthiness, I don't recollect exactly, but it is based on, you know, whether the authors have stated what kind of analysis they do.
Karthik Srinivasan: Are they honest about their findings? Are they, you know, do they, you know, do they have, like, any superfluous, adjectives used, or,
Karthik Srinivasan: It's grounded.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? Those kind of things. So, it's based on prior research, we are, you know, we have defined this very…
Karthik Srinivasan: Right, so we have the data, and we have this sample code.
Karthik Srinivasan: Let's try doing it on LM Studio, right? So, I have LM Studio.
Karthik Srinivasan: Let me… Open it up.
Karthik Srinivasan: Okay, I think, LM Studio is not on this, Computer.
Karthik Srinivasan: We just do, or is it?
Karthik Srinivasan: And this was a reason.
Karthik Srinivasan: So… So the step that many of you were
Karthik Srinivasan: No, we hadn't reached that point last time, was… to…
Karthik Srinivasan: Point the, the models folder.
Karthik Srinivasan: to the, to the Red Surface folder, right? So… Mr.
Karthik Srinivasan: So you have 19 models speaking out, so, there should be a…
Karthik Srinivasan: I think it's there, right? So you can change the path, so I went to this particular item, my models, then I'm changing the path.
Karthik Srinivasan: And then, in Change the Path, I'll appoint it to the recipes.
Karthik Srinivasan: directory, right? So in my… here, the SFS is this particular one, right? So I select the folder…
Karthik Srinivasan: So that's the folder that shows up here, right? If you do this, you should be able to see all the models that has been downloaded in that folder, right? This is one way, or else you can just download it into your local, and that'll show up here, right? So once you have those models, it should be accessible
Karthik Srinivasan: Here, right? If you click on select a model to load, it should be shown
Karthik Srinivasan: In the list, right? So let's just do the smallest model. Let's do the 1.2 billion model, because that seems to be something everybody is able to load, right? So we're just loading this model.
Karthik Srinivasan: For now, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: And let's download that code, from Canvas, right? So this was the code from Canvas.
Karthik Srinivasan: If I read it in a plain text.
Karthik Srinivasan: Okay, I'm going to… I'm going to open this using Visual Studio Code, okay? Have you guys installed Visual Studio Code?
Karthik Srinivasan: All of you?
Karthik Srinivasan: So, yeah, thank you. Thank you for installing that. So, Visual Studio Code or any other code editor will make your life easier, right? So, to run that code.
Karthik Srinivasan: I may not have, the necessary
Karthik Srinivasan: plugins for running this, so that's a good thing, right? So, you can install the, from Microsoft for Python language. So I'm going to install that plugin, because we need those
Karthik Srinivasan: plugins to run the code, right? So, Visual Studio is just a kind of,
Karthik Srinivasan: a container, right, whereas we need all these plugins, extra patch of software to be running Python, R, or any kind of…
Karthik Srinivasan: Right?
Karthik Srinivasan: So it'll ask you for, the folder, right? So maybe you can…
Karthik Srinivasan: We can create a folder. Let's create… Bye.
Karthik Srinivasan: Let's… let me create a folder here.
Karthik Srinivasan: I'll just create a border in their, dollars, etc, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: Thank you for us.
Karthik Srinivasan: Hello, it's to you.
Karthik Srinivasan: With these two files?
Karthik Srinivasan: Inside that for you.
Karthik Srinivasan: Okay, this is just for our envision.
Karthik Srinivasan: And I'm like, what is weird.
Karthik Srinivasan: Nope.
Karthik Srinivasan: four little pages I just created.
Karthik Srinivasan: So this has both alternate.
Karthik Srinivasan: I dropped the offensive line go out of the earthquake.
Karthik Srinivasan: So this has two files, one is the data file, one is the code and tag.
Karthik Srinivasan: Great.
Karthik Srinivasan: I'm sorry.
Karthik Srinivasan: I just want to agree on the notification, right? I don't want to use the entire,
Karthik Srinivasan: Let me just go hard.
Karthik Srinivasan: the same.
Karthik Srinivasan: Okay, this is fair. No, this is…
Karthik Srinivasan: Would you like to install newly and use it to install power? So, if you guys are…
Karthik Srinivasan: if you don't have Python.
Karthik Srinivasan: Let's see… Get a look at the laptop.
Karthik Srinivasan: But because, I think, like, according to your,
Karthik Srinivasan: employee is even installed and,
Karthik Srinivasan: So Icon hasn't even started.
Karthik Srinivasan: Okay. So now, let me see if I can,
Karthik Srinivasan: So let me explain the code, right? So we have a certain,
Karthik Srinivasan: software packages we are, you know, calling in pipelines, and, it's something called OpenAI, so OpenAI is the package you need to, for the API, right? You need to call OpenAI API functions. We can do that using this software.
Karthik Srinivasan: Absolutely. Not being, you know, regular expression.
Karthik Srinivasan: Then we have, listen to the bottom?
Karthik Srinivasan: I'm doing a Panda CD file for INS research.
Karthik Srinivasan: Beautiful.
Karthik Srinivasan: The API key does not matter. API does not matter, right? Because I'm not doing a cloud service, I'm doing it on the local.
Karthik Srinivasan: But it's not going to… it's not going to authenticate me, and I don't need any kind of authentication as part of this. But since, the LM School requires some kind of mechanism to access the model, it reuses the OpenAI option, right? So instead of having a local
Karthik Srinivasan: URL, and this…
Karthik Srinivasan: a random API key. If you replace it with the OpenAI website's URL and the API key for that, you can access the cloud LLM, right? So here we are accessing a local LLM instead of a cloud LLM.
Karthik Srinivasan: And here, why is this URL 127.0.0.1? I have this 424? Because LMU, when I open a studio.
Karthik Srinivasan: The martyr…
Karthik Srinivasan: should be running. So, I never started the server, right? Just start the server, and the server should be running at 1.7.0.0.1.3, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: Right. The developer console? Yeah, if developer is not accessible to you, yeah. Sure it is. Yeah, there are these four icons here, right? Four columns. So this one is for chat.
Karthik Srinivasan: And this one is the… yeah, developer, yeah. Then we have the My Models, and the last one is… Right? So, you have to click on the developer. I keep updating this, so I get lost every single day.
Karthik Srinivasan: Once you execute,
Karthik Srinivasan: just click on, start running the server, right? So, it gives you a local host URL. Why is it a local host? Because this is not accessible in any other person's computer or on the internet, right? This is just a…
Karthik Srinivasan: helpful for an interface, so if you kind of, if they have a, interface for a browser, you can see something, but right now, there's no
Karthik Srinivasan: endpoint, or, you know, you can't see anything here, but that port is kind of, open for access. That's what this is. So you have, you have this for access.
Karthik Srinivasan: It's reachable that. So we are going to access our models from the LM Studio using the Python program, using this URL, right? Using this deck.
Karthik Srinivasan: And then, it's saying that it is running successfully, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: So don't close this window, minimize it.
Karthik Srinivasan: Even if you close it, it should be running in the background, I believe. So, LM Studio or something, if you close this, it's still, you know, you should be able to see
Karthik Srinivasan: On the top, bottom right, you should be able to see the Hello Studio button.
Karthik Srinivasan: So, it means that it has not yet built on.
Karthik Srinivasan: But yeah, this just minimizes the point.
Karthik Srinivasan: Then, let's get back to this. So, we have…
Karthik Srinivasan: the URL, and then the API is not… this particular parameter is not being accessed if you are using a local LNF, right? And then, I think this would be more helpful if I do a Jupyter Python rulebook, right? So let's try a Jupyter Python rulebook instead, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: New text file.
Karthik Srinivasan: And let me save it as…
Karthik Srinivasan: VIN glass… Right? NM Studio.
Karthik Srinivasan: Let me see if there's a Python on the book, HDY…
Karthik Srinivasan: There's an extension in VS Code that lets you run it, like, in the Jupiter. Normally, if you go to the… if you type in REPL, it's like the Python R-E-P-L.
Karthik Srinivasan: Let me see if this works on that. Sometimes, you know, Jupyter… I think it needs to be IP by MP for that.
Karthik Srinivasan: Whenever I go to my Python files, just the .py, I click on the drop-down arrow next to the play. Yeah, I can see that right now. Yeah, so the play button up in the top right, I click on the drop-down arrow, and it lets me click on, like, open an interactive window, like, opens it up, kind of like Jupyter.
Karthik Srinivasan: You know, right now, for some reason, I am able to see this? None sell.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? My code also is actually extracted from our information, so there are these tenants every now and then, which says that, you know, the code is divided in multiple code snippets, right? Are you guys able to see this in your VS Code?
Karthik Srinivasan: Are you able to see the grunt cell?
Karthik Srinivasan: If not, just try installing this Jupyter notebook, okay? Once I just installed this.
Karthik Srinivasan: Jupyter plugin, it looks like this automatically was able to detect
Karthik Srinivasan: And, you know, this code can be done, then by attending, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: So, in this case, I would be able to run this cell separately, right? So, this is running one cell at a time.
Karthik Srinivasan: And it'll tell me if there is something needed.
Karthik Srinivasan: So it's saying, select a kernel.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? If you are… again, there are two options here. What options do you want? Do you want to run this on your Python
Karthik Srinivasan: global system that… or you want to install a virtual environment and run it? What do you want to do? I like doing it natively.
Karthik Srinivasan: Natively? So, natively means he wants to use the… So, virtual environment means whatever you're installing here, whatever packages you're using, they get installed in that particular port.
Karthik Srinivasan: So all we need to do is, on the right, right, we can just ask AI, create a virtual…
Karthik Srinivasan: Environment… Who, install the Python package.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? Yes, so…
Karthik Srinivasan: But you need to log in. So, we are using Visual Studio Code. We're going to use the, you know, the AI for Visual Studio Code, you need to log. So, right now, I'm going to log in with my GitHub, but if you don't want to do this, you may want to install it, you don't want to run your Python scripts.
Karthik Srinivasan: You know, all the pip install will happen at the global level.
Karthik Srinivasan: So, what do I do? Do I do this, use AI, or do I not use AI?
Karthik Srinivasan: UCI. UCI? Okay. Then I will need to log in now, sir. I'm going to…
Karthik Srinivasan: access my area using my GitHub, right? I also mentioned that GitHub
Karthik Srinivasan: you guys can get student access with the Pro Copilot version, right? So you can ask for it, and that really helps you when you have a Visual Studio. I would recommend getting that GitHub student
Karthik Srinivasan: co-pilot for a year. They just released a new change today. They made it to where you can't choose, like, any of the good models anymore. Like, you have to stick with the auto one instead of choosing, like… they removed Opus, and they removed Solomon, and they removed GPT from, like.
Karthik Srinivasan: But it's pretty good, you know, even for me, I'm not… I've never tried, Opus and…
Karthik Srinivasan: All those estimates?
Karthik Srinivasan: But,
Karthik Srinivasan: Older models are also working, right? Like, for example, this command that I was given, create a virtual environment.
Karthik Srinivasan: It's a pretty standard thing, so it is… this is the command that it's creating, right? Python… That's M.
Karthik Srinivasan: VEMV, and the name of… this is the name of the virtual environment, and it's a virtual environment file, right? So it's running…
Karthik Srinivasan: this in the command line on my behalf. So if you are using Mac, it is doing it on the terminal. And in Windows, it's called as command prompt, right? So it's in the command… it's going to do that there, right? So now it created
Karthik Srinivasan: a virtual…
Karthik Srinivasan: environment folder, right? So, and then it will test it. So, if you go to your folder,
Karthik Srinivasan: You should be able to see, in the master folder, you should be able to see
Karthik Srinivasan: The virtual environment folder created, okay?
Karthik Srinivasan: So, good thing about a virtual environment is that it will… You know, your…
Karthik Srinivasan: Python outside this folder will be saved, right? Whatever you install here.
Karthik Srinivasan: actual guy who made a few things,
Karthik Srinivasan: Py is not a mess. That's because PY is, not into the path, right? So, the computer does not know what PR means. So, this is… PR will help us, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: all these…
Karthik Srinivasan: infrastructure, kind of technical things. Hours earlier, now can be run using AI. But we need to be a little, you know, careful about this, right? We need to read through what it is doing, and then approve it every single time, right? It's saying run PWSS command, what is it going to do?
Karthik Srinivasan: That food is… Basically, trying to…
Karthik Srinivasan: So it's seeing where my Python installation is, and it's going to use that for what creating the virtual end, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: So Python doesn't see you install it, UV is available, right? We just installed UV here, right? We installed…
Karthik Srinivasan: UE, and using that, we installed, Python.
Karthik Srinivasan: You guys should be having Falcon in your computers, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: Hi, Charles.
Karthik Srinivasan: What's that? We've been running it on PyTrum and Datalina's class. Python, tool, which is being accessed by PyTrum. Yes. So… I think it makes its own.
Karthik Srinivasan: No, there should be only one. Every computer typically has only one Python in its…
Karthik Srinivasan: in the… in the native, that's what you're… the term you were using, right? So if you want to check that, you can take Windows.
Karthik Srinivasan: to do, CMD.
Karthik Srinivasan: There is a Python. I'm just using the desktop computer, the classroom computer. I should have used the remote computer, but…
Karthik Srinivasan: If you see, if I click on Python, oops, aren't… Returning anything for me, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: So, for you guys, if you write Python, it should…
Karthik Srinivasan: enter, the Python code into it, right? So you guys try it.
Karthik Srinivasan: So right now, it's saying I need to install Python.
Karthik Srinivasan: Maybe I…
Karthik Srinivasan: Yeah, you can change the interpreter, like, if you press Ctrl-Shift-P, and it brings up the top bar menu, you just type it… Maybe I shouldn't do this, okay? I should…
Karthik Srinivasan: not do this, and I should go to my own…
Karthik Srinivasan: device, and then do it. I don't want to, you know, disturb the classroom computer.
Karthik Srinivasan: not responsible of me. So I'm going to… I'm going to log into my, remote.
Karthik Srinivasan: that I don't get it to charge it. This is my, my own computer, work computer, so it's not the laptop, right? So I will need to repeat the steps.
Karthik Srinivasan: Let me, some of the steps, right? For you guys, you already have Python, so you should be starting.
Karthik Srinivasan: Let me tell you.
Karthik Srinivasan: in the art company.
Karthik Srinivasan: So, being able to go to Canvas… Download those reports… Sorry, guys, sorry about this.
Karthik Srinivasan: Then once I download this, I will open…
Karthik Srinivasan: folder, right, is what we did, let me… Create a folder.
Karthik Srinivasan: trouble is one time those. You get it done.
Karthik Srinivasan: Then your device will have,
Karthik Srinivasan: LM Studio, you'll know how to use this, like, every single time you don't have to start
Karthik Srinivasan: Right, so now I am opening the folder…
Karthik Srinivasan: I go to the folder that,
Karthik Srinivasan: Of course, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: You don't realize.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? So we were here.
Karthik Srinivasan: And the downside thing is theory.
Karthik Srinivasan: This would be more straightforward, because I have all the packages installed in my…
Karthik Srinivasan: thing, right? But yeah, I was really sure how to, create a remote virtual environment, right? Create a virtual…
Karthik Srinivasan: Environment in this folder.
Karthik Srinivasan: to install Python.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right.
Karthik Srinivasan: You will let you go a woman.
Karthik Srinivasan: you know, like, systems.
Karthik Srinivasan: iPhone packages there.
Karthik Srinivasan: Correct thing, I'll set up a Python virtual environment.
Karthik Srinivasan: is active, so you can install it in our case.
Karthik Srinivasan: So I would say, okay, do it, go ahead and do it. So I'm creating a virtual environment.
Karthik Srinivasan: Not VMB file.
Karthik Srinivasan: Oh my god.
Karthik Srinivasan: It's good for juice.
Karthik Srinivasan: I can't interpreter part, so I don't have the part to be
Karthik Srinivasan: Hmm.
Karthik Srinivasan: If you type in where I am…
Karthik Srinivasan: How did you guys do that?
Karthik Srinivasan: That's a great option.
Karthik Srinivasan: It's a space after 5.
Karthik Srinivasan: Do you have carton.
Karthik Srinivasan: This… where does physics get involved?
Karthik Srinivasan: Do it on that.
Karthik Srinivasan: Conda EMP list.
Karthik Srinivasan: Show you the power.
Karthik Srinivasan: ENV lists.
Karthik Srinivasan: So, let me see. Let me try to figure out, okay.
Karthik Srinivasan: I don't know.
Karthik Srinivasan: Where am I planning?
Karthik Srinivasan: It is better.
Karthik Srinivasan: computer kit, I am using a coin outside, Mr. Alfredo.
Karthik Srinivasan: Which is everything.
Karthik Srinivasan: Once that Conda file is created…
Karthik Srinivasan: or the virtual environment is created, you will be able to see it here, right? So this folder would have been created. And now, if you're… so you're… now, since you… it'll… it'll… if you go to your,
Karthik Srinivasan: This chose base, right? Now, instead of base.
Karthik Srinivasan: You can select that terminal, which you just
Karthik Srinivasan: So, this is the kernel that was just created, not Conda.
Karthik Srinivasan: In your, in your, in your folder, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: So it's saying, okay, you want to install IPython kernel? Okay, let's install that.
Karthik Srinivasan: So, and then I'm going to…
Karthik Srinivasan: install these packages. So when I run this cell.
Karthik Srinivasan: All these packages may not be there, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: So, I will need to install all these.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? All of them will be installed into this container.
Karthik Srinivasan: If you want, I can also install packages into this environment next. Next, yes, okay. So let me see…
Karthik Srinivasan: Yes.
Karthik Srinivasan: And that's not the open yet.
Karthik Srinivasan: I would recommend use… using virtual environment.org is conducting, noisy group.
Karthik Srinivasan: It is easier to translate between projects and have the same software, train.
Karthik Srinivasan: If not, you'll have to install all these APIs.
Karthik Srinivasan: go into the main Python, word.
Karthik Srinivasan: This may take a little bit of time.
Karthik Srinivasan: What are you doing?
Karthik Srinivasan: Sorry, like…
Karthik Srinivasan: It's checking that all these are installed in my conduct folder or not.
Karthik Srinivasan: If I go to Library here.
Karthik Srinivasan: I can disappear.
Karthik Srinivasan: and Pandas, and they're all, like, very basic pandas.
Karthik Srinivasan: Installed and verify your environment, so we have these three packages which have been installed.
Karthik Srinivasan: I don't know if subcrosses that are gonna have been starting off.
Karthik Srinivasan: There's another, sales card.
Karthik Srinivasan: So this was just supposed to make the use case loud.
Karthik Srinivasan: Yes.
Karthik Srinivasan: Yeah, if you, if you responded.
Karthik Srinivasan: Yeah, I know I… I'm trying to run it using a Python
Karthik Srinivasan: Maybe I should generate a JupyterPy runnerbook and general.
Karthik Srinivasan: Hallelujah.
Karthik Srinivasan: If I, you know, instead of just… I could just run the whole thing, I just wanted to run line by line to show you guys
Karthik Srinivasan: Those are,
Karthik Srinivasan: So yeah, if you click the dedicated circle option, Pretty useful.
Karthik Srinivasan: No, not dedicated interactive. Interactive terminal. It pulls up another domain, though, kind of similar to my… This one? Exactly, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: Yeah, that's how they communicate.
Karthik Srinivasan: Yeah, this is a question for me, really.
Karthik Srinivasan: in the,
Karthik Srinivasan: Visual Studio Code, you also have a terminal access, right? So, you should be able to see the terminal axis
Karthik Srinivasan: I think something is… Damn.
Karthik Srinivasan: Yeah, let me just continue with showing you the code and running it all together, right? This is…
Karthik Srinivasan: This thing is not helping me here, running eats it. So some kind of…
Karthik Srinivasan: challenge with using the Conda virtual environment that I just used.
Karthik Srinivasan: And, beautiful.
Karthik Srinivasan: They don't, yeah, I'm in the cell.
Karthik Srinivasan: So what we do here is we have the… the LM Studio API, the… OpenAI API.
Karthik Srinivasan: And then, we use that to look at the app side, right? And we are looking at this model.
Karthik Srinivasan: So, Meta Llama 3.1 AP Instructor. So, the model name should be the same.
Karthik Srinivasan: I've seen in the RM studio.
Karthik Srinivasan: So you should go to LM Studio and see whether you have that particular model.
Karthik Srinivasan: metal, 3.187. Again, I… how do we know if it is the, same
Karthik Srinivasan: So you don't need to run it right now, in here.
Karthik Srinivasan: But, so this is the name you should be given, right? Metal Lama.
Karthik Srinivasan: It should be the same variable name.
Karthik Srinivasan: The primary domain.
Karthik Srinivasan: Okay, so that's what I'm providing here, the model name. You can switch between models, right? In the code, all you need to do is, if you want to iterate, you can use any different models, and you should be able to do so, right? In the next code.
Karthik Srinivasan: Use the system from?
Karthik Srinivasan: So let me, let me just use this field, the agenda.
Karthik Srinivasan: You know, let me open it up.
Karthik Srinivasan: Using Notepad, right? That should be easier.
Karthik Srinivasan: To just exclude the code.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? So, this is the system prompt.
Karthik Srinivasan: And this is a quantized unit, right? You are an expert in evaluating research project narrators.
Karthik Srinivasan: you are a strictly mechanical scoring person, right? So I don't want any explanations from it, I just wanted to score.
Karthik Srinivasan: and tell me how trustworthy a particular abstract is, right? So then I'll give the definition of epistemic trustworthiness. Epistemic trustworthiness is a set of characteristics
Karthik Srinivasan: that determines if a layperson should depend on an expert. The expert here is the author, the researcher who is writing the paper, right? It's just on three dimensions, expertise, so the competence of the researcher.
Karthik Srinivasan: Integrity, honesty, objectivity, so whether they report all their results, whether they show that sometimes the results do not work, or the model, or we are not able to find what we were expecting, so that honesty is required.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? And benevolence, right? Are they acting in the interest of society?
Karthik Srinivasan: Rather than personal gain. So, are they saying that this is helping, the geographic community, or, you know, this is helping the whole humankind, or… So, if those kind of statements is there in the abstract or not?
Karthik Srinivasan: Right, so these three are the components of epistemic trustworthiness, and based on that, I wanted the LSM to give me a score.
Karthik Srinivasan: From 0 to 100, and I've given it a rubric on how to score it, right? Very similar to what Songchi had done in her presentation, but she had looked at cybersecurity risks.
Karthik Srinivasan: Yeah, this is still under, you know, I'm still working on this, and we have not generated results on this, but there are a few reasons why I wanted to share this with you, right? To show you how to use LN Studio.
Karthik Srinivasan: The local models for, you know, using on your day-to-day world.
Karthik Srinivasan: Also to, show, how to give sophisticated prompting.
Karthik Srinivasan: Inside code, right? So we are using the system prompt here.
Karthik Srinivasan: So it gives some examples as well, right? So if you remember, giving examples in prompt was helpful for the LM, right? You give examples, it knows, how it should throw the output as, and things like that. And here, we are only using an 8 billion parameter model.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? So the Meta Llama instruct is just 8 billion parameters. Multimed by your GPD file or something, which are hundreds of billions of parameters, right? So this is a very small model compared to the other model.
Karthik Srinivasan: So again, I think I should change this code, To have that,
Karthik Srinivasan: since you guys… all of you want to run this, instead of the Meta Llama AB instruct, let me give the, the smallest model, right? What was the smallest model? It was,
Karthik Srinivasan: That 1 billion parameter model, right? LLM…
Karthik Srinivasan: 1.2 billion. Let me… let us do that then, right? So that… the variable name will be… the parameter name will be LFM,
Karthik Srinivasan: Nfm… Hyphen 1.2B.
Karthik Srinivasan: I think.
Karthik Srinivasan: So I'm going to change the model here.
Karthik Srinivasan: Hello, fam.
Karthik Srinivasan: 1.2.
Karthik Srinivasan: Thank you for lunch.
Karthik Srinivasan: 2.2 hyphen 1.2.
Karthik Srinivasan: Nope.
Karthik Srinivasan: Python 1.2.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? So this model is open, right? It used to be lighter than the 8 billion parameters model, which will run faster for any kind of computer you guys, right? So we're just experimenting with this, figuring out how to run this, right? So I want to save this file. I've saved this file, so I'm here, I think the notepad will ask me to reload it, I'm going to reload it.
Karthik Srinivasan: So instead of the metal armor, let's, the… they're going to use the lighter anomaly, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: So, and then we are doing the product to it. Let's see how smart it is in the 1 billion parameters.
Karthik Srinivasan: Somebody isn't doing this, right? Then it gives generated code, so the code is inside a dictionary.
Karthik Srinivasan: And then we iterate through every, record in the Pandas file, right? In the CSV file, we stop around 200, different, abstracts, right? Just want to read through 200 abstracts, and notice that I'm giving the…
Karthik Srinivasan: They're calling the, you know, the dock.
Karthik Srinivasan: And given it as a variable.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? So in the ChatGBT and other places, you would actually paste the text in, right? But I'm not pasting the text, I'm reading a specific file, and I'm training to every record. So every record reads an abstract, result abstract, then it sends it to that route.
Karthik Srinivasan: object, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: And this is my user prompt. So the user prompt says, input text to evaluate.
Karthik Srinivasan: And I put some special symbols here to identify that this is the input data, right? And after the data.
Karthik Srinivasan: I have some instructions, right? Instructions assess the text above for epistemic trustworthiness, right? Exactly one shot
Karthik Srinivasan: Sentence of reasoning.
Karthik Srinivasan: On the next line, write this code. Output format should be in this field. Why am I doing this? Why am I…
Karthik Srinivasan: Researching what I only deal with is still don't
Karthik Srinivasan: Anyways, observe that I've been telling it again and again to do the same thing. You see that earlier, I said, this is what I need to do, this is the declaration of additional image, this is the rubric, so all this went in the system wrong.
Karthik Srinivasan: Why is it going in the system prompt? It is going to be… Significance increases? Yes, sometimes… so these smaller models, they forget, right? You tell them something, but while they're reading the input context, then they forget what they were supposed to do.
Karthik Srinivasan: Then they will just do some random thing. It may even happen for the bigger model. So that's why I'm really carefully writing a prompt. Like, I start with the system prompt, what I need.
Karthik Srinivasan: And then… After I give the data itself.
Karthik Srinivasan: I again assert what I want.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? If I didn't do this.
Karthik Srinivasan: If this document was very large.
Karthik Srinivasan: Then you could forget what is to be done.
Karthik Srinivasan: No, it was happening in my case, because we're not using big models, we're using this kind of 8 billion parameters on 4 billion parameter models. So, I had to research this. So, this thing is a new kind of prompting style. It's called sandwich prompting.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? Why is it called sandwich prompting? Because we have some prompts here, we have some text here, or the system prompt, and we have some text here as well, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: And when we sandwich the data, Between the prompts.
Karthik Srinivasan: Great.
Karthik Srinivasan: So this is a very nice, technique to…
Karthik Srinivasan: You know, be able to iterate through multiple documents, yeah.
Karthik Srinivasan: So, do you run all of them at once, or…
Karthik Srinivasan: I mean, you mean the document… the CSV file, right? All of them at once. That's the advantage of coding, right? The coding, you don't need to run one by one.
Karthik Srinivasan: You just need to run everything at once. So here,
Karthik Srinivasan: some of this has been generated by AI and all, right? But I know what the code does, so I've not written every code on my own, and here, the system ROM comes first, and then the user
Karthik Srinivasan: prompt comes afterwards, I adjust the temperature, so zero means it is not very creative, it is very deterministic, right? I need the scores, that's all I need. I don't want to be very creative, right? Max tokens, and giving it very small output tokens. So all I need is a score.
Karthik Srinivasan: I don't want it to hallucinate or talk about extra things, so all I want… that's why I put just a small number. So, I don't put it too high, but I don't put it, like, very small as well.
Karthik Srinivasan: So I could actually just do 10 tokens or 5 tokens.
Karthik Srinivasan: But I was just, you know, if it gives a decimal number, 5.888 or something like that, so I don't want it to, you know, be thrown out of place if it is too small a set of tokens, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: So that's the output tokens, and then…
Karthik Srinivasan: Yeah? When you're, like, doing the sandwiching, could you…
Karthik Srinivasan: theoretically just copy and paste, like, the exact same thing, or do you need it to be, like, somewhat different? Different. Okay. So, you don't want to do it the same way, right? It is, you want to…
Karthik Srinivasan: So the sandwiching here is different, right? So the first time, I kind of had a definition. This is much larger, right? And then I gave some examples.
Karthik Srinivasan: And then, this sandwiching… if you see the user prompt, the sandwiching is only between
Karthik Srinivasan: this text and this text. So here, I don't have a lot of text here, but it is still sandwiching. It's not like I just, you know, have the document and, you know.
Karthik Srinivasan: At the… but, but this…
Karthik Srinivasan: after adding the document, I'm able to add this text here, right? So all this, it's very difficult to do if you are doing it from the, you know, from the chat website, or from the chat GP or something, right? You're able to do more if you're nitro code.
Karthik Srinivasan: But you don't want to repeat the same thing. You want to… you want to say, this should be more sharp words. This is like a reminder.
Karthik Srinivasan: You know? Like, some thousand words, you tell everything, then this is the data, that's another 10,000 words, and then at the end, you remind it, right? Like, when I'm teaching, I'll teach you all the slides, but then I will have a summary slide which says, this is what we learned. So this is something like that.
Karthik Srinivasan: And then I have some regular expressions,
Karthik Srinivasan: This is just a safety net. You know, sometimes the LLM will hallucinate, so we just want to take the numbers out.
Karthik Srinivasan: For regular experience, I have talked to some of you in data management.
Karthik Srinivasan: But this is, like, super important.
Karthik Srinivasan: This is one of the things that most students get to know, they don't know what to expect.
Karthik Srinivasan: How many of you know what I mean, What's that?
Karthik Srinivasan: So this is an approximate search, okay? So this is for, like, Ctrl-F, Ctrl, you can control C, Ctrl-X, right? You go to a document, you look for that particular word, right? So, in programming, it is much more flexible
Karthik Srinivasan: than looking for… Only backwards.
Karthik Srinivasan: You can think groups like that one. So again, coming back to our data management course, NextQL, you guys learned about white parts, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: White cards are regular transitions.
Karthik Srinivasan: But regular expressions in Python or Java, they are much more flexible, right? So here, the regular expression, I myself do not know every single regular expression. I have to look it up.
Karthik Srinivasan: online, I have a cheat sheet, or, you know, I have to search online, but here, sometimes you can just read it, right? This B means adding decimals, right? It says one or more decimals, then there's an escape word, this escape symbol, and it says dot, means this is how the number should look like. It should be some kind of digits before, numeric digits.
Karthik Srinivasan: And then there should be some numerics, at least one numeric digits afterwards. And then there's a question mark. So the question mark stands for something. I think it is, yeah, in this context, I don't remember, but…
Karthik Srinivasan: So… Why is this important? Because when you have AI-generated code, when you ask AI to prove something.
Karthik Srinivasan: many times it will resort to regular expressions. And when you want to verify that code, right, because as a developer or as an analyst, you're doing some work using AI, like using VS Code or ProdCode.
Karthik Srinivasan: At the end of the day, you are the person who are submitting that work, right? So you should be answerable if there's a bug in the code.
Karthik Srinivasan: So you should be able to verify and validate everything that it is doing. Even though it is thousands of lines of code.
Karthik Srinivasan: You should be able to see the logic that it is doing. And sometimes, code like this will blow you off, right? You do not know what it means.
Karthik Srinivasan: So this regular expression is something you may want to read up.
Karthik Srinivasan: And privacy, right? Sometimes the comments will help you. So it's saying, look for the first number in the restaurant.
Karthik Srinivasan: So in the response, after it looks at our description, it is giving a score.
Karthik Srinivasan: But sometimes when it's a score, it is more descriptive. It says, oh, this is a wonderful abstract, or this is a wonderful research, and now I would like to give a score of 3. Right?
Karthik Srinivasan: We don't care about what it believes or what it likes. We just want to explore something. So this… this is like safety, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: extracts the number from, right? So, again, just to make sure that there's a number.
Karthik Srinivasan: So if there is a number, if there's a match, it means that, okay, I got a score. If there is no match, then it says no number found in the output. LLM, it went through your abstract, but it did not do what you wanted to do, right? You wanted it to give a number, but you did not give it a number.
Karthik Srinivasan: The LLM did not give a number.
Karthik Srinivasan: That's what this is. The if-else.
Karthik Srinivasan: Thank you.
Karthik Srinivasan: Then it gives an error exception if it's not able to read a document or something.
Karthik Srinivasan: Okay.
Karthik Srinivasan: then it iterates, right? So the effects loop, the for loop, runs through every document, so it runs through the 200 records.
Karthik Srinivasan: And after that, it'll give you the outputs, in that dictionary which we learned, and then it'll store it back into the, data frame, right? So, the original data frame that we had.
Karthik Srinivasan: We had the, abstract and everything.
Karthik Srinivasan: And now it should be… sorry, I think it's not that original data frame. This is a new data frame it creates.
Karthik Srinivasan: With the text, followed by the scores.
Karthik Srinivasan: It's creating the doc… it's also adding the documents.
Karthik Srinivasan: And it has the scores, right? So we know every document and this code we will.
Karthik Srinivasan: And then it, exports the particular file.
Karthik Srinivasan: into, the output, right? So why am I saying 5 samples? Because in the interest of time for you guys, I didn't…
Karthik Srinivasan: run this through all the 200 samples. Somewhere in the code, I would have said, we need only 5 samples, and you see that,
Karthik Srinivasan: it's… it's… this is the quote, right? If you wanted to run it through the entire data set.
Karthik Srinivasan: it will take much more time, right? Right now, this is running for 5. Let's try running it.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? So, I'm going to just…
Karthik Srinivasan: Run this, so there's no,
Karthik Srinivasan: how did this give me the output already, right? Did I run this already?
Karthik Srinivasan: I'll just delete it and run it back, okay?
Karthik Srinivasan: I don't know how it, yes, ma'am.
Karthik Srinivasan: Oh, maybe it already exceeded, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: No worries, thank you so much. So that, that kind of helped, right? I was… I wanted to explain it by, like, in a Jupyter-Python way, but let me just run it, right? I'm just running it the entire… all the code at once.
Karthik Srinivasan: It will print some of these, it's printing… it's saying LMS is not recognized, some kind of error there, so it is processing using this model.
Karthik Srinivasan: every document that it reads… so it reads slowly, right? It's not very fast. There is saving time, but it has to do a lot, right? For every document, it has to read through the prompt, and it has to give a score.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right, so it has looked through the 5 documents, and now it has given us there is no
Karthik Srinivasan: I want you guys to try this. So this entire…
Karthik Srinivasan: process was run using the local LLM. We have not used any cloud LLM. We have not subscribed to LLM.
Karthik Srinivasan: It's completely free, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: But the downside of free is that we need to use our own computing resource.
Karthik Srinivasan: And it may not be very accurate, because it is just 1.2 billion parameters. So, you don't know.
Karthik Srinivasan: Actually, more than…
Karthik Srinivasan: Powerful models may be more accurate. So you may want to get that freeze, you know, the sweet spot.
Karthik Srinivasan: Where… The model is not very big.
Karthik Srinivasan: But you are able to,
Karthik Srinivasan: you know, get more accurate results. So you'll have to iterate through your process to do that, right? So this 1.2 billion parameters model is giving you these scores. It seems to be very, very, generous, right? Very lenient. It's saying, oh, all these papers have very high…
Karthik Srinivasan: scores. Again, we don't know how, how, how, valid these scores are.
Karthik Srinivasan: So this is something which I've been studying, and I'm trying to understand how to use these LLMs
Karthik Srinivasan: in a more reliable way when doing some scoring mechanism, right? Because different LLMs can give their own scores. How would we know? So this is similar to, exports and sub-level.
Karthik Srinivasan: How do I know? If there are experts, then I can say, okay, this person is an expert, so it's more reliable option. But if I do the survey for 500,
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? It's a more representative sample of the population. The scores are negative, I can average it.
Karthik Srinivasan: That may be more representative of the truth. Okay.
Karthik Srinivasan: 8.
Karthik Srinivasan: But yeah, the downside is this… so this… this is the small kid who I've asked the question, right? And I've got the answers here.
Karthik Srinivasan: But if there's a 200 million parameter model, maybe that's a more mature person, and the scores may be difficult.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? So, was this helpful, guys?
Karthik Srinivasan: Learning how to do local models?
Karthik Srinivasan: Am I in one… My suggestion is to try to use it in your reporting.
Karthik Srinivasan: Trying to, go beyond
Karthik Srinivasan: Like what Eileen was saying, sometimes these models are slow, right? When you run it, you want to load these things, they are slow.
Karthik Srinivasan: But if you're able to get, eventually, right, access to better computing resources, some kind of RAM or something, you know, GPUs, then these local models can be pretty powerful.
Karthik Srinivasan: You don't… so it's a cost-benefit trade-off.
Karthik Srinivasan: Like, the GPUs…
Karthik Srinivasan: And again, Jacob knows it, but do you guys know what Anne knows it online? So, what are the costs for a GPU? Do you guys know?
Karthik Srinivasan: Keeps going up every day.
Karthik Srinivasan: It's kind of stagnating, but it's…
Karthik Srinivasan: It's around $1,000. For a decent model, it's around $1,000, and it's not just a GPU. You need to… I mean, again, that's what the… I would say the…
Karthik Srinivasan: So, around how do you explain?
Karthik Srinivasan: But then you need to find the CPU, or a server which has the cooling mechanism for the GPU, because the GPUs get cleaned up very fast.
Karthik Srinivasan: Okay, so…
Karthik Srinivasan: Yeah, it's a payoff, right? If you're going to use your cloud resources quite to some point with that, you'll be spending hundreds of dollars every month.
Karthik Srinivasan: Doing your processing.
Karthik Srinivasan: Then using your local issue.
Karthik Srinivasan: But if you're not going to do that, right, if you're just going to use a few, less than $50 a month, right, then you might as well use a lot of resources for longer, right? Your company will also be thinking of these things, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: It's not just the money, it's also, privacy, and it's also the flexibility and scope that you have.
Karthik Srinivasan: Like, it was a modest and,
Karthik Srinivasan: like, in this case, I was able to iterate through this, right? So, ideally, you can also do this iteration, so instead of one model, so I had a… I had one model here.
Karthik Srinivasan: this model, right? I could use a list of 5 models, and then I could iterate, I could have another loop.
Karthik Srinivasan: then I could iterate two different models, get different sorts, right? You can also do it for cloud models, not like you cannot do it, yeah.
Karthik Srinivasan: We need to write code accordingly.
Karthik Srinivasan: It's very easy to get trapped into one single vendor system, right? Into a Google system, or ChatGPT, or, you know, one of the vendors.
Karthik Srinivasan: But a smart way would be to use different vendors.
Karthik Srinivasan: What are the schools telling us in the CSV that it makes?
Karthik Srinivasan: So, three things, right? One is about the integrity of the author, that… how fruitful they were in their research, right? The second thing was the benevolence, how, you know, were they doing it… their research is for the benefit of humanity, or…
Karthik Srinivasan: very, very localized, right? Are they just doing something which nobody cares? So there were, like, two or three factors, right? What is the third one?
Karthik Srinivasan: I don't know.
Karthik Srinivasan: these three factors. The third one was,
Karthik Srinivasan: expertise. So how… how competent they are, right, based on what they have written and the kind of technical terms they have defined and stuff, right? So sometimes you can just detect technical… no technical expertise from the text.
Karthik Srinivasan: It's… all these are based on just the text. So an abstract may not be very accurate, right? So the abstract is just fine, but then would it take all these states on that end? Maybe not.
Karthik Srinivasan: But think about, NSF grant, right? Which is several thousands of words.
Karthik Srinivasan: maybe you can detect these things, much better. And using a more powerful element.
Karthik Srinivasan: You can kind of also look up,
Karthik Srinivasan: external information, right? It could look up that particular researcher and see, okay, what was the number of citations, things like that.
Karthik Srinivasan: That could be included for the expertise, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: Exactly.
Karthik Srinivasan: So let's start with vector databases.
Karthik Srinivasan: So, typically, in AI courses, they would not have a chapter called vector databases.
Karthik Srinivasan: Typically, they would try to embed this in the, and I'm…
Karthik Srinivasan: itself, so the RAG chapter itself, but here we are… we are going to look at it
Karthik Srinivasan: you know, separately, right? The reason being that we have learned
Karthik Srinivasan: about the database, right? In the data management course, we have learned about SQL structure databases, we have learned about graph databases, MFQ databases, and we learned, right? So this is kind of a new type of database, so we are able to compare this database
Karthik Srinivasan: with other kind of databases. So that's the objective of adding this slide here.
Karthik Srinivasan: Instead of, you know, putting… embedding it into the RAG chapter, right? Because vector databases are being used for RAG, but not only for RAG. They could be used for other things as well, right? So it's just a concept. It is just a tool which can be used for anything.
Karthik Srinivasan: So it stores and manages high-dimensional vector embeddings.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? Sorry, guys. I don't know what…
Karthik Srinivasan: Sound is… I'm just going to close all these other things.
Karthik Srinivasan: Something I need to learn how to mute the interoper.
Karthik Srinivasan: You don't need visions.
Karthik Srinivasan: To store the environment is high-directional with the embeddings.
Karthik Srinivasan: Optimize for a similarity search terms, which has a numerical representations of data, okay? So what… what have we learned about natural data?
Karthik Srinivasan: We have learned quite a bit on regions, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: What did you learn?
Karthik Srinivasan: When did we launch?
Karthik Srinivasan: What are embeddings?
Karthik Srinivasan: a series of numbers that are, like, capturing the relationship between words? Yes, exactly. So we learned about that in the NLP thing, right? When we were learning about how NLP translates to attention translates to, you know, transformers and
Karthik Srinivasan: And all that, right? And which is the, kind of, the founding concept of, generally doing it, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: So, behind words, So what could be…
Karthik Srinivasan: translated to vectors, right? So vectors could be certain dimensions, so it'll look like something like this.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? And… Right? Something like this, right? And then, we also learned that attention itself
Karthik Srinivasan: Was kind of a math multiplication, or a simple math, off of combining…
Karthik Srinivasan: these vectors, right? The QKV, and then we would get another vector, right? So, even those… any kind of tokens… so this… the NLP tokens, right? So, they are…
Karthik Srinivasan: They are translated to embeddings, so everything is translated to embeddings. So embeddings are these high-dimensional vectors, right? So they are kind of the basic concept, the basic unit of data
Karthik Srinivasan: in generative AI, or any kind of modern computing, right? So, in regression, we learned about tables, you know, categorical variables, numerical variables, and on.
Karthik Srinivasan: And then in SQL, we also learned about similar tabular data. But when you think about anything that transcends data mining, with going to deep learning, LSTM, RNN, transformer models, you only keep talking about
Karthik Srinivasan: dimensions, right? About vector dimensions and vectors, right? So now, thinking about trying to force-fit this back to, you know, writing it into SQL, or, you know, DPMS databases, or NoSQL,
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? So these are the kind of things people were thinking, right? What do I do? I have this data now, which data is very different from my tables, right? Which used to…
Karthik Srinivasan: look different, and I know how to store tables, I would easily store my tables into DBMS,
Karthik Srinivasan: I would easily store my… Unstructured things.
Karthik Srinivasan: into NoSQL, but what do I do with these numbers? And that's when this, you know, these vector databases were invented, you know? Earlier, they would just be storing it as objects, right? You would just store it as objects, as sensors.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? So tensors are basically, multi-dimensional vectors, right? Two-dimensional vectors, and then you have three-dimensional vectors, and… so things like that. They would just get stored into objects. But those objects would be…
Karthik Srinivasan: only specific to programs. Like, in R, you have an R object, Python, you have the Python object, but those will be stored in those, right? But when you talk about an enterprise level, you want to store it more responsibility, you want to manage it more responsibly. And that's what these vector databases are all about, right? So when you want to store an object.
Karthik Srinivasan: Vector data.
Karthik Srinivasan: So you use…
Karthik Srinivasan: vector databases, right? And vector databases, the thing that you need to think about is those embeddings.
Karthik Srinivasan: Everything in deep learning, machine learning.
Karthik Srinivasan: You know, where you need embeddings, you need, I mean, the vector database is a good place to go. We'll learn about the, the, you know, the concepts and the technicalities on vector, again, this title, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: So, traditional databases are not designed for semantic similarity, right? Whenever we forward embeddings, typically we are saying which word is related to which other word, right? We were looking at similarity, we were looking at some kind of… so that's what the vectors were very good at doing.
Karthik Srinivasan: Right? But a traditional databases are not designed for that, right? The SQL that you wrote, select star, from, or, you know, all those are not designed for similarity, right? They are designed for different kind of purposes, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: So, it supports KNN, K nearest neighbors, or, artificial neural network algorithms, or application retrieval.
Karthik Srinivasan: It's crucial for AI ML recommendations, standards, etc.
Karthik Srinivasan: I'm… Right? So, common use cases of vector database, semantic text search.
Karthik Srinivasan: image and video retrieval, audio similar detection, product recommendation systems, and fraud detection, and audio detection, right? So, basically, all those places where we would use AI,
Karthik Srinivasan: And those complex data is typically stored as identity records.
Karthik Srinivasan: you can use, vectors, vector database, right? So you could store
Karthik Srinivasan: Text, a large amount of documents, you could store them as vector database, you could store images and video as vector database, audio.
Karthik Srinivasan: Alright, so… A whole lot of things.
Karthik Srinivasan: Okay, so, again, this is a very,
Karthik Srinivasan: A trivial slide here, because we… we kind of know that, you know, images can be translated to embeddings, and once you have, you know, text can be translated to embedding, videos can be translated directly.
Karthik Srinivasan: In the single bit, right? We kind of did this in a sample in the class, right?
Karthik Srinivasan: how to translate humangus into embeddings. We also saw how to translate text into embeddings, right? So, if you're able to translate to embeddings, you should be able to create a vector database on it.
Karthik Srinivasan: Again, I created this last semester, but these kind of things have been already covered in our class, right? So we know that if you have two vectors, we should be able to
Karthik Srinivasan: compute…
Karthik Srinivasan: the similarity between them, right? So this is a vector, a two-dimensional vector, this is another two-dimensional vector.
Karthik Srinivasan: And the way to compute the similarity
Karthik Srinivasan: is, by computing the distance, right? So the distance is the opposite of similarity. So here, this is the,
Karthik Srinivasan: Euclidean distance, right? So the Euclidean distance, this is the formula for it. So you just take, for every dimension, you take the difference and squareish.
Karthik Srinivasan: And then you sum it with the other, squared, component, and then they take a root of it.
Karthik Srinivasan: then you get the distance. And once you have the distance, you know how similar they are by just either taking it into the denominator, like 1 by 0.28,
Karthik Srinivasan: I haven't sit there really high… Numbers on which you,
Karthik Srinivasan: you know, subtract this one, right? So this feels… this… this is helpful for…
Karthik Srinivasan: computing the similarity between different vectors, right? So this is kind of the basics of vector databases. We will stop here, so I will continue from there. I'll talk about more vector databases, and then we remove that.
Karthik Srinivasan: After, spring break, right? Thank you guys, thank you for your attention.
Karthik Srinivasan: And have an ice cream day. See you in the day.